In this lecture we will learn about CSSA syntax.
Let's take a closer look at the syntax of CSSA code.
There are three ways that we can reference in each DML element we can access the element by Tag ID or
class when we want to access an element by tag we simply type the tag name.
For this example let's add a paragraph element to a web page and give it some text content.
Then we will add an opening style tag specifying the paragraph element tag name and then give our text
the color of blue.
Finally we will add a closing style tag by specifying the paragraph tag name.
We are telling the browser to render any paragraph elements on our Web page the color blue.
Let's go to the web browser and write our code
as you can see our text is blue as a result of the code we just wrote.
Let's jump back to the editor when we reference an element by using the name of the tag like this.
We're using the elements selector to get access to the HVM element the selectors the thing outside of
the curly braces that tells us which HVM out element to modify.
In this case the P is considered the element selector.
We can also reference an element by ID to reference an HMO element by its ID.
We need to put a hash tag or pound symbol followed by the ID value.
Let's give our paragraph element an idea of tax and then use this idea to color our text blue.
We will use the pound symbol followed by the idea of the element.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our text is now the color blue.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
In this case the hash tag text is called an ID selector.
Remember that each ID that you use should only be used once and can never be reused by another element
in your HVM code.
The third way that we can reference each tremelo elements using CSSA is by class.
Let's change the ID attribute to the class attribute.
We will also change the pound symbol to a period before the class moon when we run our code in a web
browser.
We can see that it is blue.
Let's jump back to the other.
In this case dot text is called The Class selector.
Remember that we put a period in front of the name of the class we want to reference.
Note that if we have more than one element we want to apply the exact same style to.
We can use multiple selectors and separate them by commas.
Let's change the code so that we have two paragraph elements with the example text inside of them.
We will give the first element an idea of text and the second element an idea of text 2 to stylize both
of these elements we will first use the pound symbol followed by the idea of the first element which
is text.
Then we will add a comma and do the same for the idea of the second element.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as we can see both of the text elements are displayed in
blue.
Let's jump back to the editor after the selector and see SS There is an opening and closing curly brace
as you can see within the curly braces.
We have what we call declarations when a property is assigned a value or style it is called a declaration.
And this example our declaration is specifying that the color property should have a value of blue color
is the property followed by a colon followed by the value which is blue in this case.
And the declaration is ended with the semi-colon all together.
That statement is one declaration.
We can also add multiple declarations inside of the curly braces.
For example if we wanted to write a line the text we could add a declaration to assign the value right
to the property tax the line.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see not only is our text the color blue but it is now right aligned on our Web page.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example
CSSA also supports comments.
Remember comments are code that isn't executed but is used by the developer to make notes to themselves
or other developers or during testing to figure out what line might be throwing an hour to write a comment
and CSX used forward slash asterisk followed by the text of the comment.
Once you have finished typing the text for the comment code the comment with an asterisk followed by
a forward slash.
Usually programming languages have different syntax for specifying single line and multi-line comments
however comments in CSSA have the same syntax whether they are single line or multi line in the next
lecture we will learn about what cascading order is in C Ss.